When you first spawn in, you'll notice you have a buff on your character and some neat new tools in your inventory. The buff is the Ark Omega
newbie buff, which lasts for 10,000 seconds (slightly less than 3 hours), increases your Ark Omega rare item drop rate, gives you 90% damage
mitigation, and massively reduces your aggro radius, allowing you to dodge most enemy dinos. The gathering tool functions as both a metal axe
and metal pick — you can switch between the two by pressing the "Change Weapon Attachment" button. The knockout club delivers little damage
but heavy torpor and occasional stun, useful for knocking out your first tames. The gathering sickle gathers anything you could gather by hand (e.g.
berries, seeds, fiber) in a wide radius. It's recommended to equip all these tools to your hotbar first thing.

And now you can get started in earnest! Your first goal is to acquire the material for an omega workbench, which is a level one engram, craftable in
your inventory. Ideally you'll also make an imbue workbench, with more of the same materials, for later. Next, you'll want to make your kibble machine, 
a level six engram and your egg collector, a level twelve engram both crafted in the omega workbench.

Now that you have your basic amenities built and perhaps have a little starter base to place them in, you need to begin killing things. You need
souls and essence to make kibble to tame creatures for progression, and those only come from killing creatures with tiers and variants. If you have
a reusable mod installed, this is the point where the reusable spear and bola come in very handy. Otherwise, use your favorite vanilla weapon; basic
tier creatures aren't much stronger than vanilla ark creatures statistics-wise, you can easily kill most early dinos with a primitive bow and stone
arrows.

Optional but recommended. Kill three basic-tier (no tier listed, just [for instance] "Teleporter Dodo" or "Warp Lystrosaurus") ethereal dinos, then
take their souls and essence plus a spear (reusable or otherwise) to your omega workbench, and make an ethereal spear. This will make killing
things go much faster. That's if you haven't gotten an Omega unique or legendary weapon such as "Burning Idol" or "Fate" to drop from a kill, of
course — if you get a weapon drop, use it! They all have special effects and will cause you to kill things much faster.

Also optional but recommended: once you have some essence higher than basic tier, reserve six and craft a set of primitive armor like hide or cloth,
as well as a primitive reflect shield in the omega workbench, then place them all plus your six essence in your imbue workbench, choose the type of
essence you put in the workbench from the list, and click "imbue all" to give this gear some random stats when you wear it. This is very helpful
early-game, before you've started getting gear drops.

Make use of your newbie buff and kill as many wild dinosaurs as you can to get drops and level up your player rank. Taming dinosaurs can wait until
the buff runs out.

Once you are ready to start taming, you need at least one soul (such as a mythical soul), five basic essence, as well as some raw meat and some 
mejoberries to craft your first basic kibble in the kibble machine. Knock out basic tier dinosaurs and tame them using the corresponding kibble. 
For egg collector, just females are fine — you can upload them and the egg collector will produce eggs according to Egg Collector Generation Rate 
changeable in the Omegadex Admin section. Otherwise you'll want a male too, as dinos need to be mate-boosted to lay eggs.

Be warned - getting your first dino in Omega is not actually a power boost like it is in vanilla. You're going to
do more damage than your early tames and (while you have the newbie buff) you're also going to take less damage than they do. Ideally you'll just
tame one single-kibble female creature of each variant and tier up until elite, and keep them for egg production, rather than combat.

<h4>So, to summarize getting started.</h4>

- Gather until you can craft your Omega Workbench (and optionally your Imbue Workbench).
- Find a safe place to set up a starter base, ideally away from dino spawns.
- Use your Omega Workbench to craft a Kibble Machine and Egg Collector.
- Kill wild dinos for souls, essence and loot drops to get stronger. (Crafting an Ethereal Spear and imbuing some armor will make this step
easier and faster!)
- Use your Knockout Club and Gathering Sickle to knock out and tame some basic tier dinos.

Once you've done all of this, you're officially on your way in the early game — congratulations!